Sometimes you'll load in more than one
dataset into R
and you'll want to be able to merge the
datasets together.
And usually what you'll want to do is
match those datasets based on an ID.
This is very similar to the idea of having
a
linked set of tables and a database like
My SQL.
So, what we're going to be talking about
here is data from this peer review
experiment.
And so, this is an experiment that I was
actually an author on.
And so, we collected data on people
who submitted answers to questions like
SAT questions.
And then people who reviewed those answers
and
tried to decide whether they were right or
not.
And this was a model system for how
the peer review system works in scientific
studies.
So, what we can do is download the peer
review data.
The peer review data is actually available
from my Dropbox account.
And so, we can get the reviews and the
solutions from this dataset.
And so, we download these two files.
And so, there are two data frames, one
corresponding to all
the SAT problems that were solved by
people in the study.
And one by all the people, of course,
bunch
of all the times that those problems were
reviewed.
So we read them both into two data frames.
We can look at the reviews data frame,
which has these variable names.
So you can see, one of the variable names
for this data frame is
solution id, and that corresponds to the
id that appears in the solutions dataset.
You can see the solutions dataset also has
a problem id and a subject id.
Those will be matched to other datasets
that we're
not going to be talking about in this
particular example.
So, the first thing that we might want to
use
is, the merge command, to merge the
datasets together.
So, again, if we look at the names of
these two variables.
We can use the solution id and the reviews
variable or dataset
and the id variable in the solutions
dataset to merge these datasets together.
So, the important parameters to merge are
x and y, so those are two data frames.
And then, you can use either by, or by.x
or by.y
to tell a merge which of the columns it
should merge by.
By default it merges by all of the columns
that have the common name.
So, for example, in this dataset, it would
try to
merge by id, start, stop, time left, and
so forth.
Because those variables also appear in
solutions because
id is here, start, stop, and time left.
Even though those variables might not
necessarily mean the same thing.
So, what we're going to do, instead, is
tell
merge which of the variables it should
merge on.
So, it merges the reviews and the
solutions for the x data frame in
this case is the reviews data frame, we're
going to merge on the solution id.
And in the solutions data frame, we're
just going to merge based on the id.
Here I'm going to tell it, all equals
true.
Which means if, if there's a value that
appears
in one but not in the other, it should
include
another row but with na values for the
missing
values that are, don't appear in the other
data frame.
And so, we can look at the top of this did
new merge dataset and
you can see now that the solution id has
now taken the place of the id.
And it's ordered by that variable and then
this id variable
is the id variable that's left over in the
reviews datasets.
So, this is the reviews main id that's
appears here in this dataset.
So you can see that this has merged
the two datasets together, based on their
common id.
So that then you can analyze it as one
dataset.
The default again is to merge based on all
column names common column names.
So, if you do an intersection of the names
of the solutions data
frame and the names of the reviews data
frame, you get these four variables.
And so, if you try to merge without
telling it what to merge on the
basis of, it will try to merge on the
basis of all those four variables.
So, what ends up happening is, the id
variable will match up sometimes between
the two datasets.
But the start and the stop times won't
necessarily match up.
So, what it ends up doing is it just
creates a data frame that's larger that
applies multiple rows.
One for each row of reviews and each row
of solutions.
You can also use join in the plyr package
to join datasets together.
It's a bit faster than merge but, is a bit
less full featured.
In other words, in other words, it only
can merge on
the basis of common row er, common names
between the two datasets.
And so, you couldn't merge the two
datasets we talked about just a
minute ago because it, we need to merge by
solution id and id.
And join will only merge on the basis of
id even though it's faster.
So, here's an example.
I created two made up data frames with a
common
id identifier, but I've sampled them, so
they're in different orders.
And so, what I can do is, I can join the
two datasets together.
It will join them by id, and then I can
use
the arrange command to arrange them in
increasing order by id.
And so you see I've arranged the two
datasets together in that way.
You can play around with these commands to
see how you could join datasets together.
The nice thing about the plyer package,
and the reason why I bring it up is
that if you have multiple data frames it's
relatively challenging to do it with the
merge command.
But if they have a common id, it's very
straightforward to do it with the join all
command.
So, what I do is I create my three data
frames, in this case, and
I put them all on a list, so one big data
list of data frames.
So it's a data frame list with three data
frames in it.
And then I just use the command join all,
which merges
all of the different datasets on the basis
of the common variables.
In this case, id.
So, that's a nice way to merge together
multiple datasets very quickly.
The r da, data merging page is very good,
as is the plyr page for merging datasets
together.
Before you start doing this intensively,
it's worth paying
attention to, whether you're performing
different kinds of joins.
Whether you're doing a sort of left joins,
or right joins.
And the best way to learn more about that
is to go read about joins in databases.
For example, here, this is the information
about joining for SQL database joins.